Add FAQ section to the DALI documentation (#3761)
NVIDIA/DALI: docs/FAQ.rst

Q&A
***

Q: How do I know if DALI can help me?
#####################################

> A: You need to check our docs first and see if DALI operators cover your use case. Then try to run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A: You need to check our docs first and see if DALI operators cover your use case. Then, try to run
```

Author: Fixed

> a couple of iterations of your training with a fixed data source - a random tensor that is generated

Reviewer: A random tensor doesn't necessarily suffice. How about suggesting loading one batch of data and reusing it in subsequent iterations?

Author: Fixed

once to see if you can train faster without any data processing. If so, then the data processing

> is a bottleneck in your case and DALI may help. This topic is covered in detail in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is a bottleneck and, in that case, DALI may help. This topic is covered in detail in
```

Author: Fixed

`the GTC'22 talk <https://www.nvidia.com/gtc/session-catalog/#/session/1636559250287001p4DG>`_.

Q: What data format does DALI support?
######################################

> A: Regarding the data storage, DALI natively supports TFRecord, RecordIO, caffe/caffe2 LMDB,
> WebdataSet. Regarding the data types, it supports images, video, and audio. If the given type
> is not supported the external source operator can execute user-provided python code that would
> read and parse it.

Reviewer: I think it mixes the two a bit.
```suggestion
A: DALI can load most of the image file formats (JPEG, PNG ,TIFF, JPEG2000 and more) as well as audio (WAV, OGG, FLAC) and video. The files can be stored individually or grouped in storage containers from common DL frameworks - TFRecord, RecordIO, caffe/caffe2 LMDB. WebDataset is also supported. In case there's no native support for a particular format, the data can be loaded and parsed in user-provided python code and supplied via external source.
```

Author: Fixed

Q: How does DALI differ from TF, PyTorch, MXNet, XYZ FW
#######################################################
A: The main difference is that the data preprocessing and augmentations are GPU accelerated,
and the processing is done for the whole batch at the time to improve GPU utilization. Also,
it can be used in multiple different FW - TF, MXNet, PyTorch, PaddlePaddle - so you are sure
that the data processing is bit-exact, which is important when you move models between FWs
and see some discrepancies in the accuracy. Moreover, it provides a convenient way to switch
data processing between GPU and CPU to utilize all available computational resources.

Q: What to do if DALI doesn't cover my use case?
################################################
A: You can experiment first with writing a custom operator in Python to check if you can create
a data pipeline you like (you can even use CuPy inside to utilize GPU). Then you can create
a plugin with an operator running the native code or use Numba to convert python code to

> the native operator. You can also become a contributor and make your work a part of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a native operator. You can also become a contributor and make your work a part of
```

Author: Fixed

the DALI code base - we would be more than happy to review and accept any PR with new
functionality.

Q: How to use DALI for inference?
#################################
A: You can easily employ DALI for inference together with the TRITON server. We developed
a dedicated DALI backend so all the user needs to do is provide a description of the processing
pipeline to the TRITON server, and add DALI into the model ensemble.

> Q: How much is the speedup of using DALI compared to loading using OpenCV? Especially for JPEG images.
> ######################################################################################################

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Q: How big is the speedup of using DALI compared to loading using OpenCV? Especially for JPEG images.
#####################################################################################################
```

Author: Fixed

> A: DALI utilizes nvJPEG to accelerate JPEG decoding. It leads up to 2.5x speedup with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A: DALI utilizes nvJPEG to accelerate JPEG decoding. It achieves up to 2.5x speedup with
```

Author: Fixed

NVIDIA A100 Ampere GPU - `see for details <ttps://developer.nvidia.com/blog/loading-data-fast-with-dali-and-new-jpeg-decoder-in-a100/>`_.

> In the case of other image formats, which decoding is not GPU accelerated, DALI uses either OpenCV

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case of other image formats, for which there's no GPU accelerated decoding, DALI uses either OpenCV
```

Author: Fixed

(like for PNG) or dedicated library directly, like libtiff. In this case, the performance should
be comparable.

Q: Can you use DALI with DeepStream?
####################################

> A: There is no reason why models trained with DALI can be used for inference with DeepStream.

Author: Fixed

DeepStream mostly focuses on online video and audio inference pipelines, DALI can do this only
for offline scenarios. There is no direct integration between these two solutions.

Q: How to control the number of frames in a video reader in DALI?
#################################################################
A: It can be controlled by the `sequence_length` argument.

> Q: Does DALI volumetric 3D data processing can work for the ultrasound?
> #######################################################################

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Q: Can DALI volumetric data processing work with ultrasound scans?
##################################################################
```

Author: Fixed

A: DALI doesn't support any domain-specific data formats like NIfTI, but in most cases, the data
is first processed offline and converted to a more data processing friendly format like NumPy
arrays (including initial normalization and conversion). If the data is available in DALI-supported

> format there is no reason why it cannot be processed no matter if it is an ultrasound or CT scan.

Reviewer: Add:
```Please be advised, that DALI does not support 3D reconstruction, either from sequences of 2D ultrasound scans or CT sinograms.```

Author: Added

> Q: How to debug the DALI pipeline?
> ##################################

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Q: How to debug a DALI pipeline?
################################
```

Author: Fixed

A: Just recently DALI added `an eager debug mode <../examples/general/debug_mode.html>`_ so
the output of each operator can be instantly evaluated and andy python code can be added inside

> the pipeline for the prototyping purpose.

Author: Fixed

Q: Can I access the contents of intermediate data nodes in the pipeline?
########################################################################

> A: In the pipeline mode it is not possible, however, thanks to the recently introduced
> `debug mode <../examples/general/debug_mode.html>`_` it can be done for prototyping
> and debugging purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A: In the pipeline mode it is not possible, however, thanks to the recently introduced
`debug mode <../examples/general/debug_mode.html>`_` it can be done. For performance
reasons, this feature is intended only for debugging and prototyping.
```

Author: Fixed

Q: When will DALI support the XYZ operator?
###########################################

> A: We cannot commit to any timeline to add any particular operator, still we are open to external

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A: We cannot commit to any timeline to add any particular operator. Still, we are open to external
```

Author: Fixed

> contributions. On top of that every user can extend DALI on his own without modifying its code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
contributions. On top of that, every user can extend DALI on his own without modifying its code
```

Author: Fixed

to do it step by step.

Q: How can I provide a custom data source/reading pattern to DALI?
##################################################################
A: You can define any custom data loading pattern using python and
`external source operator <../examples/general/data_loading/external_input.html>`_. To make it
faster please use `its parallel capability <../examples/general/data_loading/parallel_external_source.html>`_.

Q: Does DALI provide any profiling capabilities?
################################################
A: DALI doesn't provide any built-in profiling capabilities, still it utilizes NVTX ranges
and has a dedicated domain (so it is easy to find in the profile) to show its operations. So you can
capture the profile using `NVIDIA Nsight Systems <https://developer.nvidia.com/nsight-systems>`_
or any Deep Learning profile that also supports NVTX markers.

Q: Does DALI support multi GPU/node training?
#############################################
A: Yes, DALI supports data-parallel and distributed data-parallel strategies. Its shards data into
non-overlapping pieces using the number of shards (world size) and shard id (global rank), and

> uses device id to identify the GPU used in the particular node (local rank).

Reviewer: I don't quite understand it, so I doubt the readers unfamiliar with the product would.

Author: Reworked

Q: How to report an issue/RFE or get help with DALI usage?
##########################################################
A: DALI is an open-source project hosted on GitHub, you can ask questions and report issues

> using `this link <https://github.com/NVIDIA/DALI/pulls>`_ directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using `this link <https://github.com/NVIDIA/DALI/issues>`_ directly.
```

Author: Fixed

> Q: Does DALI accelerate only processing or also the data loading itself?
> ########################################################################

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Q: Can DALI accelerate the loading of the data, not just processing?
####################################################################
```

Author: Fixed

A: DALI mostly focuses on processing acceleration, as in most cases the input data is compressed
(audio, video, or images) and the input data is relatively small compared to the raw decoded output.
Still, there are cases, like NumPy array files, where data is not compressed and in such a case

> DALI can use `GPUDirect Storage <https://developer.nvidia.com/gpudirect-storage>`_ to bypass CPU

Reviewer: This sounds like it's done for any uncompressed file format, which is not the case.

Author: Reworked

and load the data directly to the GPU.

Q: How can I obtain DALI?
#######################################################

> A: DALI is available as a prebuild python wheel binary -

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A: DALI is available as a prebuilt python wheel binary -
```

Author: Fixed

`see to learn how to install it <https://docs.nvidia.com/deeplearning/dali/user-guide/docs/installation.html>`_
or as `a source code <https://github.com/NVIDIA/DALI>`_ that can be built on your own.

> Q: What OS DALI supports?
> #########################

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Q: Which OS does DALI support?
##############################
```

Author: Fixed

> A: DALI does support all major Linux distributions and indirectly Windows thanks to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A: DALI does support all major Linux distributions and indirectly Windows through
```

Author: Fixed

> `WSL <https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/wsl-user-guide/index.html>`_. Sorry to say but MacOS
> is not unsupported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`WSL <https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/wsl-user-guide/index.html>`_. Regrettably, MacOS
is not unsupported.
```

Author: Fixed

> Q: Where can I find the scope operators that DALI supports?
> ###########################################################

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Q: Where can I find the list of operations that DALI supports?
##############################################################
```

Author: Fixed

########################################################################################
A: DALI is a library that aims to GPU accelerate certain workloads we see that suffer the most
due to being CPU bottleneck. There are many cases not covered by DALI, or where DALI
can be suboptimal, and these are the places where other solutions could shine.

What is worth remembering, there is a lot of advertised optimizations in other libraries that
come with the cost of lower accuracy in the training or inference process - DALI has proved
itself in MLPerf benchmarks and `NVIDIA Deep Learning Examples <https://github.com/NVIDIA/DeepLearningExamples>`_
where not only speed but also accuracy matters. So the user is sure that DALI doesn't cut corners.

Q: Is DALI compatible with other GPUs?
######################################
A: When it comes to the question if DALI supports non-NVIDIA GPUs, the answer is no.
DALI GPU implementations are written in CUDA. However there are open source community efforts
that are enabling running CUDA-based applications on other GPU architectures, but DALI
doesn't officially support it.

Q: When to use DALI and when RAPIDS?
####################################

> A: RAPIDS is better suited for general-purpose machine learning and data analytics.
> DALI is a specialized tool for Deep Learning workflows, and it's aimed to accelerate dense data
> processing and overlap it with the network execution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A: RAPIDS is better suited for general-purpose machine learning and data analytics.
DALI is a specialized tool for Deep Learning workflows, and it's aimed to accelerate dense data
processing and to overlap the preprocessing with the network forward/backward passes.
```

Author: Fixed

Q: Where can I find more details on using the image decoder and doing image processing?
#######################################################################################
A: You can always refer to `the relevant section of the DALI documentation <../examples>`_
where you can find multiple examples of DALI used in different use-cases. For the start,
you can also watch `our introductory talk on this GTC <https://www.nvidia.com/gtc/session-catalog/#/session/1636566824182001pODM>`_.

Q: Does DALI utilize any special NVIDIA GPU functionalities?
############################################################
A: Yes, DALI uses `NVJPEG <https://developer.nvidia.com/blog/loading-data-fast-with-dali-and-new-jpeg-decoder-in-a100/>`_ -
special HW unit offloading JPEG image decoding, `NVDEC <https://developer.nvidia.com/nvidia-video-codec-sdk>`_ -
HW video decoder, `GPUDirect Storage <https://developer.nvidia.com/gpudirect-storage>`_ -
the ability to load data directly to the GPU to avoid a slow round trip through CPU.

Q: Can DALI operate without GPU?
################################

> A: Yes, DALI can operate without GPU but it is not optimized for the CPU itself.
> The main goal of this functionality is to enable the development of the DALI pipeline on
> machines where GPU is not available (like laptops), with an ability to later deploy the DALI
> pipeline on a GPU-capable cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A: Not 100%. Most of operators have CPU and GPU variants and a pipeline where all operators are
run on CPU doesn't require a GPU to run. However, DALI is predominantly a GPU library and CPU
operators are not as thouroughly optimized.
The main goal of this functionality is to enable the development of the DALI pipeline on
machines where GPU is not available (like laptops), with an ability to later deploy the DALI
pipeline on a GPU-capable cluster.
```

Author: The experimental video reader supports CPU, bit its functionality is very rudimentary.

Q: Can I use DALI in the Triton server through a Python model?
##############################################################
A: You could do that if the Python used by the server has DALI installed but for
the best performance, we encourage you to use the dedicated DALI backend. It skips
the Python layer and optimizes the interaction between the Triton server and the DALI pipeline.

Q: Can the Triton model config be auto-generated for a DALI pipeline?
#####################################################################
A: Not yet but we are actively working on that feature and we expect to provide
model config auto-generation for the DALI backend soon.

Q: How can we decide whether to use RAPIDS(cuDF) or DALI? What are the strengths/weaknesses of either that are not present in the other?
########################################################################################################################################
A: DALI is best suited for dense data such as images, video, audio, etc,

> while RAPIDS is better suited for data analytics and ML where data is tabular.

Reviewer: How is nvtabular related to RAPIDS/cuDF?

Author: cuDF is one of libraries inside RAPIDS, nvtabular is build on top of it.

> Q: How easy is it to integrate them with existing pipelines such as PyTorch-lightening?

Reviewer: > integrate **them**

whom?

Author: Fixed

#######################################################################################
A: It is very easy to integrate with PyTorch Lightning thanks to the PyTorch iterator.
There is a dedicated example available `here <../examples/frameworks/pytorch/pytorch-lightning.html>`_.

Q: Does DALI typically result in slower throughput using a single GPU versus using multiple PyTorch worker threads in a data loader?
####################################################################################################################################
A: In the case of CPU execution, DALI also uses multiple worker threads.
Using DALI should produce a better performance in most cases, even for one GPU.
Of course, the details can depend on the particular CPU and GPU and the pipeline itself,
as well as the current GPU utilization before introducing DALI. You can check
`our GTC22 talk <https://www.nvidia.com/gtc/session-catalog/#/session/1636559250287001p4DG>`_
or `the blog post <https://developer.nvidia.com/blog/case-study-resnet50-dali>`_ to see this in practice.

> Q: Will labels, for example bounding boxes be adapted automatically when transforming the image data? For example when rotating/cropping, etc. If so how?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Q: Will labels, for example, bounding boxes, be adapted automatically when transforming the image data? For example when rotating/cropping, etc. If so how?
```

Author: Fixed

Q&A
***

Q: How do I know if DALI can help me?
#####################################
A: You need to check our docs first and see if DALI operators cover your use case. Then, try to run
a couple of iterations of your training with a fixed data source - generating the batch once and
reusing it over the test run to see if you can train faster without any data processing. If so,
then the data processing is a bottleneck, and in that case, DALI may help. This topic is covered
in detail in
`the GTC'22 talk <https://www.nvidia.com/gtc/session-catalog/#/session/1636559250287001p4DG>`_.

Q: What data formats does DALI support?
#######################################
A: DALI can load most of the image file formats (JPEG, PNG, TIFF, JPEG2000 and more) as well

> as audio (WAV, OGG, FLAC) and video. The files can be stored individually or grouped in storage

Reviewer 2: add video formats?

Author: Fixed

containers from common DL frameworks - TFRecord, RecordIO, caffe/caffe2 LMDB. WebDataset is
also supported. In case there's no native support for a particular format, the data can be

> loaded and parsed in user-provided python code and supplied via external source.

Author: Fixed

> Q: How does DALI differ from TF, PyTorch, MXNet, XYZ FW

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Q: How does DALI differ from TF, PyTorch, MXNet, or other FWs
```

Author: Fixed

A: DALI utilizes nvJPEG to accelerate JPEG decoding. It achieves up to 2.5x speedup with
NVIDIA A100 Ampere GPU - `see for details <ttps://developer.nvidia.com/blog/loading-data-fast-with-dali-and-new-jpeg-decoder-in-a100/>`_.
In case of other image formats, for which there's no GPU accelerated decoding, DALI uses either OpenCV
(like for PNG) or dedicated library directly, like libtiff. In this case, the performance should
be comparable.

Q: Can you use DALI with DeepStream?
####################################
A: There is no reason why models trained with DALI cannot be used for inference with DeepStream.
DeepStream mostly focuses on online video and audio inference pipelines, DALI can do this only
for offline scenarios. There is no direct integration between these two solutions.

Q: How to control the number of frames in a video reader in DALI?
#################################################################
A: It can be controlled by the `sequence_length` argument.

Q: Can DALI volumetric data processing work with ultrasound scans?
##################################################################

> A: DALI doesn't support any domain-specific data formats like NIfTI, but in most cases, the data

Author: Fixed

`external source operator <../examples/general/data_loading/external_input.html>`_. To make it
faster please use `its parallel capability <../examples/general/data_loading/parallel_external_source.html>`_.

Q: Does DALI have any profiling capabilities?
#############################################
A: DALI doesn't have any built-in profiling capabilities, still it utilizes NVTX ranges
and has a dedicated domain (so it is easy to find in the profile) to show its operations. So you can
capture the profile using `NVIDIA Nsight Systems <https://developer.nvidia.com/nsight-systems>`_
or any Deep Learning profile that also supports NVTX markers.

Q: Does DALI support multi GPU/node training?
#############################################
A: Yes, DALI supports data-parallel and distributed data-parallel strategies (you can read more
about these strategies `here <https://pytorch.org/tutorials/intermediate/ddp_tutorial.html#comparison-between-dataparallel-and-distributeddataparallel>`_).
Its shards data into non-overlapping pieces using the number of shards (world size) and shard id (global rank), and
uses device id to identify the GPU used in the particular node (local rank).

> More details can be also found it `this documentation section <../advanced_topics_sharding.html>`_

Author: Fixed

A: DALI mostly focuses on processing acceleration, as in most cases the input data is compressed
(audio, video, or images) and the input data is relatively small compared to the raw decoded output.
Still, there are cases, where data is not compressed and loading it directly to the GPU is feasible.
To support that case DALI can use `GPUDirect Storage <https://developer.nvidia.com/gpudirect-storage>`_
inside Numpy GPU reader to bypass CPU and load the data directly to the GPU.

Q: How can I obtain DALI?
#######################################################
A: DALI is available as a prebuilt python wheel binary -
`see to learn how to install it <https://docs.nvidia.com/deeplearning/dali/user-guide/docs/installation.html>`_
or as `a source code <https://github.com/NVIDIA/DALI>`_ that can be built on your own.

Q: Which OS does DALI support?
##############################
A: DALI does support all major Linux distributions and indirectly Windows through
`WSL <https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/wsl-user-guide/index.html>`_. Regrettably, MacOS
is not unsupported.

Q: Where can I find the list of operations that DALI supports?
##############################################################

> A: You can find a comprehensive list of operators available `here <../supported_ops.html>`_.

Reviewer 2: Note: double check link in rendered docs

Author: Fixed

############################################################################################################################
It depends on what base implementation we compare to, but generally, DALI gives
the most benefit to the throughput of the training/inference because of the batch processing
that can utilize massive parallelism of the GPUs. Still, the GPU implementations of DALI operators
are optimized and fast, so it might reduce the inference latency.

Q: Are there any examples of using DALI for volumetric data?
############################################################
A: Yes, e.g DALI was used to achieve high performance in NVIDIA’s MLPerf submission for UNet3D.
You can read an interesting article about it `here <https://developer.nvidia.com/blog/accelerating-medical-image-processing-with-dali>`_.
You can see the DALI pipeline that was used `in this example <https://github.com/NVIDIA/DeepLearningExamples/blob/master/PyTorch/Segmentation/nnUNet/data_loading/dali_loader.py>`_.

Q: Where can I find more details on using the image decoder and doing image processing?
#######################################################################################

> A: You can always refer to `the relevant section of the DALI documentation <../examples>`_

Reviewer 2: Note: check link

Author: Fixed

Q: Can DALI operate without GPU?
################################
A: Yes. Vast majority of operators have CPU and GPU variants and a pipeline where all operators are
run on CPU doesn't require a GPU to run. However, DALI is predominantly a GPU library and CPU
operators are not as thouroughly optimized.
The main goal of this functionality is to enable the development of the DALI pipeline on
machines where GPU is not available (like laptops), with an ability to later deploy the DALI
pipeline on a GPU-capable cluster.

Q: Can I use DALI in the Triton server through a Python model?
##############################################################
A: You could do that if the Python used by the server has DALI installed but for
the best performance, we encourage you to use the dedicated DALI backend. It skips
the Python layer and optimizes the interaction between the Triton server and the DALI pipeline.

Q: Can the Triton model config be auto-generated for a DALI pipeline?
#####################################################################
A: Not yet but we are actively working on that feature and we expect to provide
model config auto-generation for the DALI Backend soon.

> Q: How can we decide whether to use RAPIDS(cuDF) or DALI? What are the strengths/weaknesses of either that are not present in the other?

Reviewer 2: move this next to or group together with the other RAPIDS question

Author: Merged

########################################################################################################################################
A: DALI is best suited for dense data such as images, video, audio, etc,
while RAPIDS is better suited for data analytics and ML where data is tabular.

Q: How easy is it to integrate DALI with existing pipelines such as PyTorch Lightning?
#######################################################################################
A: It is very easy to integrate with PyTorch Lightning thanks to the PyTorch iterator.

> There is a dedicated example available `here <../examples/frameworks/pytorch/pytorch-lightning.html>`_.

Author: Fixed

A: The meta-data, like bounding boxes or coordinates, will not be adapted automatically with
the data but DALI has a set of operators, e.g.
`bbox_paste <../supported_ops.html#nvidia.dali.fn.bbox_paste>`_,
`random_bbox_crop <../supported_ops.html#nvidia.dali.fn.random_bbox_crop>`_ for bounding boxes or
`coord_transform <../supported_ops.html#nvidia.dali.fn.coord_transform>`_ for sets of coordinates.
You can find an example `here <../examples/use_cases/detection_pipeline.html>`_.

Q: How easy is it, to implement custom processing steps? In the past, I had issues with calculating 3D Gaussian distributions on the CPU. Would this be possible using a custom DALI function?
################################################################################################################################################################################################
A: There are several ways to do it. You can write custom operators in C++/CUDA, or run arbitrary
Python code via the Python function and Numba operators. You can learn more about this topic

> `here <../examples/custom_operations/index.html>`_.

Reviewer 2: Note: check link

Author: Fixed

Q: Is DALI available in Jetson platforms such as the Xavier AGX or Orin?
########################################################################
A: At the moment we are not releasing binaries for Jetson, but it should be possible to build
DALI from source. You can learn more about the exact steps
`here <../compilation.html#cross-compiling-for-aarch64-jetson-linux-docker>`_.

Q: Is it possible to get data directly from real-time camera streams to the DALI pipeline?
##########################################################################################
A: There is no dedicated way of dealing with camera streams in DALI but you can implement it using

> `the fn.external_source operator <../examples/general/data_loading/external_input.html>`_.

Reviewer 2: Note: check link

Author: Fixed

Q&A
***

Q: How do I know if DALI can help me?
#####################################
A: You need to check our docs first and see if DALI operators cover your use case. Then, try to run
a couple of iterations of your training with a fixed data source - generating the batch once and
reusing it over the test run to see if you can train faster without any data processing. If so,

> then the data processing is a bottleneck and, in that case, DALI may help. This topic is covered

Reviewer 3: Grammar, no comma before 'and'

Author: Fixed

in detail in
`the GTC'22 talk <https://www.nvidia.com/gtc/session-catalog/#/session/1636559250287001p4DG>`_.

Q: What data formats does DALI support?
#######################################

> A: DALI can load most of the image file formats (JPEG, PNG ,TIFF, JPEG2000 and more) as well

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A: DALI can load most of the image file formats (JPEG, PNG, TIFF, JPEG2000 and more) as well
```

Author: Fixed

as audio (WAV, OGG, FLAC) and video. The files can be stored individually or grouped in storage
containers from common DL frameworks - TFRecord, RecordIO, caffe/caffe2 LMDB. WebDataset is
also supported. In case there's no native support for a particular format, the data can be
loaded and parsed in user-provided python code and supplied via external source.

Q: How does DALI differ from TF, PyTorch, MXNet, XYZ FW
#######################################################

> A: The main difference is that the data preprocessing and augmentations are GPU accelerated,

Author: Fixed

and the processing is done for the whole batch at the time to improve GPU utilization. Also,
it can be used in multiple different FW - TF, MXNet, PyTorch, PaddlePaddle - so you are sure
that the data processing is bit-exact, which is important when you move models between FWs
and see some discrepancies in the accuracy. Moreover, it provides a convenient way to switch
data processing between GPU and CPU to utilize all available computational resources.

Q: What to do if DALI doesn't cover my use case?
################################################
A: You can experiment first with writing a custom operator in Python to check if you can create
a data pipeline you like (you can even use CuPy inside to utilize GPU). Then you can create
a plugin with an operator running the native code or use Numba to convert python code to
a native operator. You can also become a contributor and make your work a part of
the DALI code base - we would be more than happy to review and accept any PR with new
functionality.

Q: How to use DALI for inference?
#################################

> A: You can easily employ DALI for inference together with the TRITON server. We developed
> a dedicated DALI backend so all the user needs to do is provide a description of the processing
> pipeline to the TRITON server, and add DALI into the model ensemble.

Reviewer 4: How about putting some links here?
```suggestion
A: You can easily employ DALI for inference together with the `Triton Inference Server <https://github.com/triton-inference-server>`_. 
We developed a dedicated `DALI Backend <https://github.com/triton-inference-server/dali_backend>`_ 
so all you need to do is to provide a description of the processing pipeline to the Triton, and add 
DALI to the model ensemble. For more information about using DALI with Triton, please refer to the 
`DALI Backend documentation <https://github.com/triton-inference-server/dali_backend#how-to-use>`_
```

Author: Fixed, I think the `https://developer.nvidia.com/nvidia-triton-inference-server` link is more appropriate than github one.

Q: How big is the speedup of using DALI compared to loading using OpenCV? Especially for JPEG images.
######################################################################################################

> A: DALI utilizes nvJPEG to accelerate JPEG decoding. It achieves  to 2.5x speedup with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A: DALI utilizes nvJPEG to accelerate JPEG decoding. It achieves up to 2.5x speedup with
```

Author: Fixed

NVIDIA A100 Ampere GPU - `see for details <ttps://developer.nvidia.com/blog/loading-data-fast-with-dali-and-new-jpeg-decoder-in-a100/>`_.
In case of other image formats, for which there's no GPU accelerated decoding, DALI uses either OpenCV
(like for PNG) or dedicated library directly, like libtiff. In this case, the performance should
be comparable.

Q: Can you use DALI with DeepStream?
####################################
A: There is no reason why models trained with DALI cannot be used for inference with DeepStream.
DeepStream mostly focuses on online video and audio inference pipelines, DALI can do this only
for offline scenarios. There is no direct integration between these two solutions.

Q: How to control the number of frames in a video reader in DALI?
#################################################################
A: It can be controlled by the `sequence_length` argument.

Q: Can DALI volumetric data processing work with ultrasound scans?
##################################################################
A: DALI doesn't support any domain-specific data formats like NIfTI, but in most cases, the data

> is first processed offline and converted to a more data processing friendly format like NumPy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is first processed offline and converted to a more data-processing-friendly format like NumPy
```

Author: Fixed

arrays (including initial normalization and conversion). If the data is available in DALI-supported
format there is no reason why it cannot be processed no matter if it is an ultrasound or CT scan.

Please be advised, that DALI does not support 3D reconstruction, either from sequences of 2D
ultrasound scans or CT sinograms.

Q: How to debug a DALI pipeline?
################################
A: Just recently DALI added `an eager debug mode <../examples/general/debug_mode.html>`_ so
the output of each operator can be instantly evaluated and python code can be added inside
the pipeline for the prototyping purpose.

Q: Can I access the contents of intermediate data nodes in the pipeline?
########################################################################
A: In the pipeline mode it is not possible, however, thanks to the recently introduced
`debug mode <../examples/general/debug_mode.html>`_` it can be done. For performance
reasons, this feature is intended only for debugging and prototyping.

Q: When will DALI support the XYZ operator?
###########################################

> A: We cannot commit to any timeline to add any particular operator. Still we are open to external

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A: We cannot commit to any timeline to add any particular operator. Still, we are open to external
```

Author: Fixed

base, please check `this page <../examples/custom_operations/index.html>`_ for more details.

Q: How should I know if I should use a CPU or GPU operator variant?
###################################################################
A: It depends on the particular use case. I would start by checking GPU  utilization to see if
throwing more work on the GPU won't slow things down, or just place everything on the CPU first
and then gradually move things to the GPU and see if that helps. You can check
`our GTC22 talk <https://www.nvidia.com/gtc/session-catalog/#/session/1636559250287001p4DG>`_
or `the blog post <https://developer.nvidia.com/blog/case-study-resnet50-dali/>`_ to see how
to do it step by step.

Q: How can I provide a custom data source/reading pattern to DALI?
##################################################################
A: You can define any custom data loading pattern using python and
`external source operator <../examples/general/data_loading/external_input.html>`_. To make it
faster please use `its parallel capability <../examples/general/data_loading/parallel_external_source.html>`_.

> Q: Does DALI provide any profiling capabilities?
> ################################################

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Q: Does DALI provide any profiling tools?
#########################################
```
or
```suggestion
Q: Does DALI have any profiling capabilities?
#############################################
```

Author: Fixed

> A: DALI doesn't provide any built-in profiling capabilities, still it utilizes NVTX ranges

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A: DALI doesn't have any built-in profiling capabilities, still it utilizes NVTX ranges
```

Author: Fixed

inside Numpy GPU reader to bypass CPU and load the data directly to the GPU.

Q: How can I obtain DALI?
#######################################################
A: DALI is available as a prebuilt python wheel binary -
`see to learn how to install it <https://docs.nvidia.com/deeplearning/dali/user-guide/docs/installation.html>`_
or as `a source code <https://github.com/NVIDIA/DALI>`_ that can be built on your own.

Q: Which OS does DALI support?
##############################
A: DALI does support all major Linux distributions and indirectly Windows through
`WSL <https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/wsl-user-guide/index.html>`_. Regrettably, MacOS
is not unsupported.

Q: Where can I find the list of operations that DALI supports?
##############################################################
A: You can find a comprehensive list of operators available `here <../supported_ops.html>`_.

Q: Can I send a request to the Triton server with a batch of samples of different shapes (like files with different lengths)?
#############################################################################################################################

> A: Even though DALI supports such data, Triton doesn't accept non-uniform batches. You can approach
> it in two ways. The first is to pad the samples to make a uniform batch. The second is to split
> the request so you send together only samples with the same shape - in some cases, they can be
> later internally merged in the Triton server thanks to the dynamic batching feature.

Reviewer 4: This is actually not true, Triton may accept the ragged batch. I suggest modifying the answer:
```suggestion
A: Batch processing is one of main DALI assumptions. On the other hand, Triton Inference Server supports a uniform batch by default. However, by enabling a `ragged batching <https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/blob/main/docs/ragged_batching.md>`_ you can send non-uniform batches and process them successfully. `Here <https://github.com/triton-inference-server/dali_backend/blob/7d51c7299dd66964097f839501e18f3b579cc306/qa/L0_DALI_GPU_ensemble/client.py#L31>`_ you can find an example of using ragged batching feature with DALI Backend.
```

In the Triton's ragged batch documentation there's no info about DALI, I'll add it there.

Q: I have heard about the new data processing framework XYZ, how is DALI better than it?
########################################################################################
A: DALI is a library that aims to GPU accelerate certain workloads we see that suffer the most
due to being CPU bottleneck. There are many cases not covered by DALI, or where DALI

> can be suboptimal, and these are the places where other solutions could shine.

Reviewer 3: Again no comma before 'and'

Author: I there is:
```can be suboptimal, and these are the places where other solutions could shine.```
or you are toking about other one.

What is worth remembering, there is a lot of advertised optimizations in other libraries that
come with the cost of lower accuracy in the training or inference process - DALI has proved
itself in MLPerf benchmarks and `NVIDIA Deep Learning Examples <https://github.com/NVIDIA/DeepLearningExamples>`_
where not only speed but also accuracy matters. So the user is sure that DALI doesn't cut corners.

Q: Is DALI compatible with other GPUs?
######################################
A: When it comes to the question if DALI supports non-NVIDIA GPUs, the answer is no.
DALI GPU implementations are written in CUDA. However there are open source community efforts
that are enabling running CUDA-based applications on other GPU architectures, but DALI
doesn't officially support it.

Q: When to use DALI and when RAPIDS?
####################################
A: RAPIDS is better suited for general-purpose machine learning and data analytics.
DALI is a specialized tool for Deep Learning workflows, and it's aimed to accelerate dense data
processing and to overlap the preprocessing with the network forward/backward passes.

> Q: Is Triton + DALI still significantly better than preprocessing on CPU, when minimum latency i.e. batch-size = 1 is desired?
> ##############################################################################################################################
> A: That can depend on the particular case and what other tool we are comparing to.
> One of DALI's advantages is the fact that it can optimize batch processing,
> but even for batch-size = 1, it might be worth using DALI because of the GPU implementation.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Q: Is Triton + DALI still significantly better than preprocessing on CPU, when minimum latency i.e. batch_size=1 is desired?
##############################################################################################################################
A: That can depend on the particular case and what other tool we are comparing to.
One of DALI's advantages is the fact that it can optimize batch processing,
but even for batch_size=1, it might be worth using DALI because of the GPU implementation.
```

Author: Fixed

the ability to load data directly to the GPU to avoid a slow round trip through CPU.

Q: Can DALI operate without GPU?
################################
A: Yes. Vast majority of operators have CPU and GPU variants and a pipeline where all operators are
run on CPU doesn't require a GPU to run. However, DALI is predominantly a GPU library and CPU
operators are not as thouroughly optimized.
The main goal of this functionality is to enable the development of the DALI pipeline on
machines where GPU is not available (like laptops), with an ability to later deploy the DALI
pipeline on a GPU-capable cluster.

Q: Can I use DALI in the Triton server through a Python model?
##############################################################
A: You could do that if the Python used by the server has DALI installed but for
the best performance, we encourage you to use the dedicated DALI backend. It skips
the Python layer and optimizes the interaction between the Triton server and the DALI pipeline.

Q: Can the Triton model config be auto-generated for a DALI pipeline?
#####################################################################

> A: Not yet but we are actively working on that feature and we expect to provide
> model config auto-generation for the DALI backend soon.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A: Not yet but we are actively working on that feature and we expect to provide
model config auto-generation for the DALI Backend soon.
```

Author: Fixed

Q: How can we decide whether to use RAPIDS(cuDF) or DALI? What are the strengths/weaknesses of either that are not present in the other?
########################################################################################################################################
A: DALI is best suited for dense data such as images, video, audio, etc,
while RAPIDS is better suited for data analytics and ML where data is tabular.

> Q: How easy is it to integrate DALI with existing pipelines such as PyTorch-lightening?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Q: How easy is it to integrate DALI with existing pipelines such as PyTorch Lightning?
```

Author: Fixed

the data but DALI has a set of operators, e.g.
`bbox_paste <../supported_ops.html#nvidia.dali.fn.bbox_paste>`_,
`random_bbox_crop <../supported_ops.html#nvidia.dali.fn.random_bbox_crop>`_ for bounding boxes or
`coord_transform <../supported_ops.html#nvidia.dali.fn.coord_transform>`_ for sets of coordinates.
You can find an example `here <../examples/use_cases/detection_pipeline.html>`_.

Q: How easy is it, to implement custom processing steps? In the past, I had issues with calculating 3D Gaussian distributions on the CPU. Would this be possible using a custom DALI function?
################################################################################################################################################################################################
A: There are several ways to do it. You can write custom operators in C++/CUDA, or run arbitrary
Python code via the Python function and Numba operators. You can learn more about this topic
`here <../examples/custom_operations/index.html>`_.

Q: Is DALI available in Jetson platforms such as the Xavier AGX or Orin?
########################################################################

> A: At the moment we are not releasing binaries for Jetson, but it should be possible to build
> from source. You can learn more about the exact steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A: At the moment we are not releasing binaries for Jetson, but it should be possible to build
DALI from source. You can learn more about the exact steps
```

Author: Fixed

`here <../compilation.html#cross-compiling-for-aarch64-jetson-linux-docker>`_.

Q: Does DALI also provide a significant improvement on inference tasks regarding latency?
#########################################################################################

> A: It depends on what is the base implementation that we compare to but generally, DALI gives

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A: It depends on what base implementation we compare to but generally, DALI gives
```

Author: Fixed

the most benefit to the throughput of the training/inference because of the batch processing

> that can utilize high parallelism of the GPUs. Still, the GPU implementations of DALI operators

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that can utilize massive parallelism of the GPUs. Still, the GPU implementations of DALI operators
```
It's actually a technical term here.

Author: Fixed

> are optimized and fast, so it might reduce the inference latency.

Reviewer 4: A little bit above there is a similar question:
`Is Triton + DALI still significantly better than preprocessing on CPU, when minimum latency i.e. batch-size = 1 is desired?`
How about merging them into one, or just skipping one of them?

Author: Merged

> are optimized and fast so it might improve the inference latency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are optimized and fast, so it might reduce the inference latency.
```

Author: Fixed

> Q: Is it possible to directly get data from real-time camera streams to the DALI pipeline?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Q: Is it possible to get data directly from real-time camera streams to the DALI pipeline?
```

Author: Fixed
